Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programming language is computer friendly language to receive, store, process and retrieve data/instructions
from the computer as per the user need. For an example, Java is a programming language.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Development kit (JDK) is a software development environment and is used to run Java applications in it.
Along with few other things, mainly it consist of the following:

Java Runtime Environment (JRE): Set of software tools to develop java application
Java Interpreter and loader: It interpretes and translates computer language (bytecode) into human readable langauge
Java Compiler (Javac):it creates bytecode for the Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
Java Archive (JAR): it is pacakged into Zip files to use many files aggregating into one
Java Documentation Generator (Javadoc): documentation generator for generating API documentation in HTML format


What is IDE?
A. IDE is Integrated Development Environment. It is a software application used for software developement.


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. There are quite a few number of IDEs available to support java, like Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, blueJ etc.


Explain the entire java lifecycle.
A. The java life cycle starts from code/text editor and goes to java compiler. Java compiler compiles the codes
 into bytecode. Bytecodes are processed into the JVM through class loader and interpreter and with the help of
 JRE (Java Runtime Environment). Finally it used by dirfferent operating systems.

what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint from which an object is created. The structure of Class is:
[access specifier] [Class keyword] [class name]{
constructor
variables
methods
}


What is object?
A. Object is the instances/mirror image of class.


What is the entry point of an application?
A. 'Main' method (public static void main(String[]args) is the entry point of any application in java.


Why main is static?
A. As main the entry point of any java application, it is static to execute the first command in any given point of time.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the superclass of all classes in java.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path: Environment variable for the operating system to implement executables.
Class path: Environment variable to find path of class. It is used by Java compiler.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface Class: only method can be declared without any method body
   Abstract Class: Non abstract method can be implemented and abstract method can be declared.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No object can be made from an Interface and Abstract class. They can be used in a full fledged class with
'extend' keyword.


what is Access Specifier?
A. Access Specifier, as its name suggests, specifies who should have access to that particular class.
In a class with 'public' keyword as access speficier, all have access to that class.
'Private' and 'protected' class are not accessed by all but can be accessed from within that particular class only.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP is Object Oriented Programming. It is based on object and data. There are four types of OOP as follows:
Abstraction: Implementation hiding. It is implemented with the help of class, objects and variables from other class.

Encapsulation: data hiding. It reduces the functionality without compromising the security by using getter and setter
methods from a private class.

Inheritance: allows classes to adopt/get the properties of another class by using 'extend' keyword. The original class is called Parent class
and the class that uses the properties of another class is called sub/child class.

Polymorphism: An object taking on many forms. It adovocates the fact that a class can extend more than one class at a time.
Method overriding and method overloading are examples of polymorphism.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is the grouping of classes, interfaces, enum etc that provide access and name space management.
Java.lang.package is the default package.


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API is Application Programming Interface. We have used java API like import.java.util.scanner, import.java.util etc.


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java does not support multiple inheritance. Because it leads to ambiguity and confusions.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method overloading allows a class to have more than one methods having the same name.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exceptions are error or roadblocks that appear during program run time. It is ususally handle with 'try' and 'catch'
 method.
 Structure of the method:
 try{


 } catch (Exception Name e1){
//catch block
 }


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static keyword in Java means a class that is static, rather than an instance that is static. As a result the static
member in that class can be accessed without creating an instance. Static can be both variables, known as class variables
 and methods, known as class methods. One can not access any non static class or method from a static method. On the other hand
 the value of the static variables is same across all instances of the class.



What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final is a java key word. When final is used and initialized with a variable, it means it can not be changed interms of it value..
On the other hand, when a method is termed as Final, it can not be overridden.


What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is a java keyword. A final variable can be initialized only once and becomes unchangeable. A final class
 can not be extended and a final methods can not be overridden.
 Finally is mainly used during exception handling. The finally blocks executes when the try block exists.
 Finalize is a method. Before an object is garbage collected, the run time system calls it finalize method.


What is a constructor ?
A. Constructor is a special method to initialize an object. It usually has the same name as Class name.



Structure of constructor:
[access specifier] [same name as class name](){

}

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes we can have multiple constructors in a class.


If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default constructor is called during object creation, if no constructor is declared.


What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. 'This' keyword is a referencne variable to refer current object. It is used to refer instance variable,
invoke constructor etc.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Super is a reference to the superclass. It is used to refer parent class object. It can be used to invoke
immediate parent class method, parent class constructor and parent class reference variable.


What is JVM stand for ?
A. JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.


Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes.


What version of java are you using?
A. "11.0.1"


What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR is Java Archive.


What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK or Java Development Kit provides required environment for the java to run its program. It contains JRE and Javac.
JVM is the Java Virtual Machine, it runs java bytecode and resides under JRE.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM is Java Virtual Machine, it resides within JRE along with core classes and supporting files. JRE is Java Runtime
environment that support the smooth functioning of JVM with the help of core classes and supporting files.


What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is the time needed to translate source code into machine readable code, run time is the execution time.


What is heap?
A. Heap is a part of java memory. Whenever a new object is created, it is stored in Heap.


How java manage it's memory?
A. Java manages its memory with its inbuilt garbage collection. It always frees up new spaces for java by garbaging
unused objects.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String class is an immutable class, StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.


What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton Class creates only one instance of a class at a time, by making the constructor private.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.  The process of converting an object into a sequences of bytes is called serialization and the reverse, the process
of converting bytes into object is called deserialization.


when to use transient variable in java?
A. A transient variable is a variable that is not serialized. The transient keyword is used to send message to JVM that
as being transient, the variable is not ready to be a part of an object.


Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop: Condition is tested at the beginging of the loop. Only if the condition is true, it will be executed.
 do while loop: Condition is tested at the end of the loop, so even if the condition turns out to be false, it will
 execute at one statement.


What is Enum?
A. Enum is a special type of java that holds collections of constants, methods etc.


What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is used in collection framework in java to retrieve elements one by one.


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. An integar will take more memory as it is capable of taking four times of storage space than an int.



Why is String Immutable in Java?
String is immutable or unchangeable in Java. Because Java uses the concept of String literal, if there are more than
one reference variable refering to the same object, then a change in one will lead changes to others as well. Thus String
is considered immutable in Java.


What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.The serial collector is mainly designed for single-threaded environments and for small heaps.
  Parallel Garbege Collector is used for multi-threaded environments


What is JIT stands for?
A. JIT stands for 'just in time' compiler. It compiles java bytecode into native machine code during runtime.


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java Heap space is the space in java memory where objects are created. Garbage collection helps to remove unnecessary
and unused objects from Heap space to make room for further memory use. It is an efficient way to make space in memory.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. If an object becomes unreachable, it becomes eligible for garbage collection. So if any unused objects are not made unreachable
it will not be considered eligible for garbage collection. As a result the situation becomes tricky to guarantee the garbage
collection.


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack memory is used to store local variables and heap memory is used to store objects in java.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is the process of modifying the properties of objects at the run time. It is useful because it helps to
inspect classes, fields and methods at run time.


what is multithreading in java?
A. Multi threading in java is executing multiple threads at the same time.


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization is a java keyword. It is used to ensure mutually exlclusive access to a shared resource with
multiple threads.


What is Framework?
A. A framework is a huge collection of pre written code used in conjunction with the users own code to solve problem.


What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, TestNG, JWalk, Mockito, JWebUnit etc are some available java framework.


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. jUnit and testNG differs in their scope. TestNG is more suitable for complex integration text, whereas jUnit is important
in test driven development.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. TestNG, jUnit and Maven.


what is dependency injection in java?
A. Dependency injection is used to test a class in isolation. A framework class, also called a dependency container is
able to analyze the dependencies of this class. With this analysis, it is able to create an instance of the class and
inject the objects into the defined dependencies.


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. When type of the object is determined at the compile time, it is known as static binding.  When type of the object
is determined at the run time it is called dynamic binding.
So static binding occur during compile time and dynamic binding occur during runtime.








